<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-negro-speaks-of-rivers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Negro Speaks of Rivers</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(To <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. E. B.</abbr> DuBois)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>I've known rivers:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I've known rivers ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood in human veins.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul has grown deep like the rivers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans, and I've seen its muddy bosom turn all golden in the sunset.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've known rivers:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ancient, dusky rivers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My soul has grown deep like the rivers.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="aunt-sues-stories" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Aunt Sue’s Stories</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Aunt Sue has a head full of stories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aunt Sue has a whole heart full of stories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Summer nights on the front porch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aunt Sue cuddles a brown-faced child to her bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tells him stories.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Black slaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Working in the hot sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And black slaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walking in the dewy night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And black slaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing sorrow songs on the banks of a mighty river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingle themselves softly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the flow of old Aunt Sue's voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingle themselves softly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dark shadows that cross and recross</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aunt Sue's stories.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the dark-faced child, listening,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knows that Aunt Sue's stories are real stories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows that Aunt Sue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never got her stories out of any book at all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that they came</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Right out of her own life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the dark-faced child is quiet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a summer night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listening to Aunt Sue's stories.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-negro" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Negro</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am a Negro:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black as the night is black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black like the depths of my Africa.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a slave:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cæsar told me to keep his door-steps clean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I brushed the boots of Washington.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a worker:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Under my hand the pyramids arose.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I made mortar for the Woolworth Building.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a singer:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the way from Africa to Georgia I carried my sorrow songs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I made ragtime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I've been a victim:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Belgians cut off my hands in the Congo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They lynch me now in Texas.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am a Negro:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black as the night is black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Black like the depths of my Africa.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Question</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When the old junk man Death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comes to gather up our bodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And toss them into the sack of oblivion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wonder if he will find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The corpse of a white multi-millionaire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Worth more pennies of eternity,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than the black torso of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A Negro cotton-picker?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mexican-market-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mexican Market Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This ancient hag</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who sits upon the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Selling her scanty wares</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Day in, day round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has known high wind-swept mountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun has made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her skin so brown.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-new-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The New Moon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There’s a new, young moon riding the hills tonight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a sprightly, young moon exploring the clouds;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s a half-shy, young moon veiling her face like a virgin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Waiting for her lover.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-dead-friend" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Dead Friend</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The moon still sends its mellow light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the purple blackness of the night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The morning star is palely bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Before the dawn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sun still shines just as before;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rose still grows beside my door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">But you have gone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sky is blue and the robin sings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The butterflies dance on rainbow wings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Though I am sad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In all the earth no joy can be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happiness comes no more to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">For you are dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-loves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Loves</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I love to see the big white moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A-shining in the sky;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love to see the little stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When the shadow clouds go by.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the rain drops falling</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On my roof-top in the night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love the soft wind’s sighing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before the dawn’s gray light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love the deepness of the blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In my Lord’s heaven above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But better than all these things I think,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I love my lady love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-south" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The South</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The lazy, laughing South</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With blood on its mouth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sunny-faced South,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Beast-strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Idiot-brained.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The child-minded South</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scratching in the dead fire's ashes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a Negro's bones.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Cotton and the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Warmth, earth, warmth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The sky, the sun, the stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The magnolia-scented South.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beautiful, like a woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seductive as a dark-eyed whore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Passionate, cruel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Honey-lipped, syphilitic—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That is the South.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I, who am black, would love her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she spits in my face.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I, who am black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would give her many rare gifts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she turns her back upon me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So now I seek the North—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The cold-faced North,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">For she, they say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Is a kinder mistress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in her house my children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May escape the spell of the South.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="laughers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Laughers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dream singers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Story tellers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud laughers in the hands of Fate—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dish-washers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elevator-boys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ladies' maids,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crap-shooters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cooks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waiters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazzers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nurses of babies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loaders of ships,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rounders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Number writers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comedians in vaudeville</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And band-men in circuses—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dream-singers all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Story-tellers all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My people.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dancers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! What dancers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Singers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>God! What singers!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singers and dancers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancers and laughers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughers?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, laughers ... laughers ... laughers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loud-mouthed laughers in the hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Fate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="danse-africaine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Danse Africaine</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The low beating of the tom-toms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The slow beating of the tom-toms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Low . . . slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Slow . . . low—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stirs your blood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dance!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A night-veiled girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whirls softly into a</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Circle of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whirls softly . . . slowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a wisp of smoke around the fire—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tom-toms beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the tom-toms beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the low beating of the tom-toms</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Stirs your blood.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="after-many-springs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">After Many Springs</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the night is a vast softness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filled with blue stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And broken shafts of moon-glimmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fall upon the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Am I too old to see the fairies dance?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cannot find them any more.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="beggar-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Beggar Boy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What is there within this beggar lad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I can neither hear nor feel nor see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I can neither know nor understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still it calls to me?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Is not he but a shadow in the sun—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A bit of clay, brown, ugly, given life?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet he plays upon his flute a wild free tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if Fate had not bled him with her knife!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-for-a-banjo-dance" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song for a Banjo Dance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, chile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em swift and wil'—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Get way back, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do that low-down step.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Walk on over, darling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Now! Come out</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With your left.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em, honey chile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sun's going down this evening—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Might never rise no mo'.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun's going down this very night—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Might never rise no mo'—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So dance with swift feet, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(The banjo's sobbing low)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dance with swift feet, honey—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might never dance no mo'.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, Liza,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em, Liza, chile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, Liza,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(The music's soft and wil')</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake your brown feet, Liza,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(The banjo's sobbing low)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun's going down this very night—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Might never rise no mo'.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mother-to-son" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mother to Son</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Well, son, I’ll tell you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s had tacks in it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And splinters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And boards torn up,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And places with no carpet on the floor—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all the time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’se been a-climbin’ on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And reachin’ landin’s,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And turnin’ corners,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes goin’ in the dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where there ain’t been no light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So boy, don’t you turn back;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you sit down on the steps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Cause you finds it’s kinder hard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you fall now—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I’se still goin’, honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’se still climbin’,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life for me ain’t been no crystal stair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="when-sue-wears-red" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">When Sue Wears Red</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Susanna Jones wears red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her face is like an ancient cameo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turned brown by the ages.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come with a blast of trumpets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Susanna Jones wears red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A queen from some time-dead Egyptian night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walks once again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blow trumpets, Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the beauty of Susanna Jones in red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burns in my heart a love-fire sharp like pain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet silver trumpets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Jesus!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-black-pierrot" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Black Pierrot</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am a black Pierrot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She did not love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So I crept away into the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And the night was black, too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am a black Pierrot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She did not love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So I wept until the red dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Dripped blood over the eastern hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And my heart was bleeding, too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am a black Pierrot:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She did not love me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">So with my once gay-colored soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Shrunken like a balloon without air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">I went forth in the morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">To seek a new brown love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="justice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Justice</h2>
			<p>
				<span>That Justice is a blind goddess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a thing to which we black are wise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her bandage hides two festering sores</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That once, perhaps, were eyes.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="monotony" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Monotony</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Today like yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow like today;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The drip, drip, drip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of monotony</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is wearing my life away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today like yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow like today.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dreams" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dreams</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hold fast to dreams, my son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For if dreams die</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is a broken-winged bird</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That cannot fly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hold fast to dreams, O boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For when dreams go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life is a barren field</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Frozen with snow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-for-the-portrait-of-an-african-boy-after-the-manner-of-gauguin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">For the Portrait of an African Boy After the Manner of Gauguin</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>All the tom-toms of the jungles beat in my blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the wild hot moons of the jungles shine in my soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am afraid of this civilization—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">So hard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">So strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">So cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="our-land" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Our Land</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Poem for a Decorative Panel</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>We should have a land of sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of gorgeous sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a land of fragrant water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the twilight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a soft bandanna handkerchief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rose and gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not this land where life is cold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We should have a land of trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of tall thick trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bowed down with chattering parrots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brilliant as the day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not this land where birds are grey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, we should have a land of joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of love and joy and wine and song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not this land where joy is wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, sweet, away!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, my beloved one, away!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-last-feast-of-belshazzar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Last Feast of Belshazzar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The jeweled entrails of pomegranates bled on the marble floor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The jewel-heart of a virgin broke at the golden door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The laughter of a drunken lord hid the sob of a silken whore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span><i xml:lang="arc-Latn">Mene</i>,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrote a strange hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span><i xml:lang="arc-Latn">Mene Tekel Upharsin</i>,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Death stood at the door.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-prostitute" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Prostitute</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her dark brown face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is like a withered flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a broken stem.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those kind come cheap in Harlem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they say.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jazzonia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jazzonia</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, silver tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, shining rivers of the soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a Harlem cabaret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Six long-headed jazzers play.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A dancing girl whose eyes are bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lifts high a dress of silken gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, singing tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, shining rivers of the soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Were Eve's eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the first garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just a bit too bold?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was Cleopatra gorgeous</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a gown of gold?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, shining tree!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, silver rivers of the soul!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In a whirling cabaret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Six long-headed jazzers play.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="shadows" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shadows</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We cannot stand these shadows!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give us the sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We were not made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For heavy shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And narrow space of stifling air</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That these white things have made.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We run!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We must break through these shadows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We must find the sun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="cabaret" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Cabaret</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Does a jazz-band ever sob?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They say a jazz-band's gay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet as the vulgar dancers whirled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wan night wore away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One said she heard the jazz-band sob</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the little dawn was grey.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="winter-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Winter Moon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How thin and sharp is the moon tonight!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How thin and sharp and ghostly white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the slim curved crook of the moon tonight!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-singer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Singer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One who sings "chansons vulgaires"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a Harlem cellar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the jazz-band plays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From dark to dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would not understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should you tell her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she is like a nymph</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some wild faun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer-meeting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer Meeting</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Glory! Halleluiah!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De dawn's a-comin'!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glory! Halleluiah!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De dawn's a-comin'!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A black old woman croons</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the amen-corner of the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ebecanezer Baptist Church.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A black old woman croons,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De dawn's a-comin'!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-the-night-is-beautiful" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">The Night Is Beautiful</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>The night is beautiful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the faces of my people.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stars are beautiful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the eyes of my people.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beautiful, also, is the sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beautiful, also, are the souls of my people.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-little-frightened-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Little Frightened Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A little southern colored child comes to a northern school and is afraid to play with the white children.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At first they are nice to him, but finally they taunt him and call him "nigger".</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The colored children hate him after a while, too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He is a little dark boy with a round black face and a white embroidered collar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One might make a story out of this tiny frightened child.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-beloved" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Beloved</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I make a record of your beauty?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I write words about you?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall make a poem that will live a thousand years and paint you in the poem?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-white-ones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The White Ones</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I do not hate you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your faces are beautiful, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not hate you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your faces are whirling lights of loveliness and splendor, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet why do you torture me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, white strong ones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why do you torture me?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="grant-park" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Grant Park</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The haunting face of poverty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hands of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rough, gargantuan feet of fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The nails of conscience in a soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That didn't want to do wrong—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can see what they've done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To brothers of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In one back-yard of Fifth Avenue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can see what they've done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To brothers of mine—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleepers on iron benches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind the Library in Grant Park.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gods</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The ivory gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ebony gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gods of diamond and jade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sit silently on their temple shelves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the people</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are afraid.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet the ivory gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ebony gods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gods of diamond-jade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are only silly puppet gods</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the people themselves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have made.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fire-caught" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fire-Caught</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The gold moth did not love him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So, gorgeous, she flew away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the gray moth circled the flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Until the break of day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then, with wings like a dead desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She fell, fire-caught, into the flame.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-for-a-suicide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song for a Suicide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, the sea is deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a knife is sharp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a poison acid burns;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they all bring rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a deep, long sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For which the tired soul yearns—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They all bring rest in a nothingness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From where no road returns.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer-for-a-winter-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer for a Winter Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, Great God of Cold and Winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrap the earth in an icy blanket</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And freeze the poor in their beds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All those who haven't enough cover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To keep them warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor food enough to keep them strong—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Freeze, dear God.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let their limbs grow stiff</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their hearts cease to beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'll wake up in some rich kingdom of nowhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where nothingness is everything and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everything is nothingness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lament-for-dark-peoples" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lament for Dark Peoples</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I was a red man one time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the white men came.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was a black man, too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the white men came.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They drove me out of the forest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They took me away from the jungles.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I lost my trees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I lost my silver moons.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now they've caged me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the circus of civilization.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now I herd with the many—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Caged in the circus of civilization.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fascination" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fascination</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her teeth are as white as the meat of an apple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lips are like dark ripe plums.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love her.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her hair is a midnight mass, a dusky aurora.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love her.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And because her skin is the brown of an oak leaf in autumn, but a softer color,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to kiss her.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-we-have-tomorrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">We Have Tomorrow</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>We have tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright before us</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a flame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yesterday, a night-gone thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A sun-down name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And dawn-today</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broad arch above the road we came.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">We march.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mammy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mammy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I'm waiting for ma mammy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She is Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Say it very softly.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say it very slowly if you choose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm waiting for ma mammy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dream-variation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dream Variation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To fling my arms wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In some place of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To whirl and to dance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the white day is done.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then rest at cool evening</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath a tall tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While night comes on gently,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dark like me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That is my dream!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To fling my arms wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the face of the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dance! whirl! whirl!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till the quick day is done.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rest at pale evening. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tall, slim tree. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night coming tenderly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Black like me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="afraid" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Afraid</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We cry among the skyscrapers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As our ancestors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cried among the palms in Africa</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because we are alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we're afraid.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="subway-face" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Subway Face</h2>
			<p>
				<span>That I have been looking</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you all my life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does not matter to you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not know.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You never knew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor did I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now you take the Harlem train uptown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I take a local down.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-song-to-a-negro-wash-woman" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Song to a Negro Wash-Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, wash-woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arms elbow-deep in white suds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soul washed clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clothes washed clean,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have many songs to sing you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could I but find the words.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Was it four o'clock or six o'clock on a winter afternoon, I saw you wringing out the last shirt in Miss White Lady's kitchen? Was it four o'clock or six o'clock? I don't remember.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I know, at seven one spring morning you were on Vermont Street with a bundle in your arms going to wash clothes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I know I've seen you in a New York subway train in the late afternoon coming home from washing clothes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yes, I know you, wash-woman.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know how you send your children to school, and high-school, and even college.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know how you work and help your man when times are hard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know how you build your house up from the wash-tub and call it home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how you raise your churches from white suds for the service of the Holy God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And I've seen you singing, wash-woman. Out in the backyard garden under the apple trees, singing, hanging white clothes on long lines in the sun-shine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I've seen you in church a Sunday morning singing, praising your Jesus, because some day you're going to sit on the right hand of the Son of God and forget you ever were a wash-woman. And the aching back and the bundles of clothes will be unremembered then.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, I've seen you singing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">O singing wash-woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">For you, singing little brown woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Singing strong black woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Singing tall yellow woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Arms deep in white suds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Soul clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Clothes clean,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">For you I have many songs to make</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Could I but find the words.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-poppy-flower" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Poppy Flower</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A wild poppy-flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Withered and died.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day-people laughed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the night-people cried.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wild poppy-flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Withered and died.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="troubled-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Troubled Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She stands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the quiet darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This troubled woman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bowed by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weariness and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like an</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Autumn flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the frozen rain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wind-blown autumn flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That never lifts its head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="johannesburg-mines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Johannesburg Mines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the Johannesburg Mines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are 240,000</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Native Africans working.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What kind of poem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make out of that?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>240,000 natives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Working in the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Johannesburg mines.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-certain-intellectuals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Certain Intellectuals</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You are no friend of mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I am poor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ignorant and slow,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not your kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You yourself</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have told me so,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No friend of mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="steel-mills" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Steel Mills</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The mills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That grind and grind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That grind out new steel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grind away the lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of men,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the sunset</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their stacks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are great black silhouettes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They belch red fire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mills,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grinding out new steel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old men.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="negro-dancer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Negro Dancer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>"Me an' ma baby's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got two mo' ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two mo' ways to do de buck!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Da, da,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Da, da, da!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two mo' ways to do de buck!"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soft light on the tables,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Music gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brown-skin steppers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a cabaret.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White folks, laugh!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>White folks, pray!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Me an' ma baby's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got two mo' ways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two mo' ways to do de buck!"</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="liars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Liars</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is we who are liars:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Pretenders-to-be who are not</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Pretenders-not-to-be who are.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is we who use words</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As screens for thoughts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And weave dark garments</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cover the naked body</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the too white Truth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is we with the civilized souls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who are liars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sea-charm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sea Charm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sea charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sea's own children</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not understand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that the sea is strong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like God's hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that sea wind is sweet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like God's breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that the sea holds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wide, deep death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-dream-keeper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Dream Keeper</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Bring me all of your dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You dreamers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring me all of your</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heart melodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I may wrap them</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a blue cloud-cloth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Away from the too rough fingers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-lovely-dark-and-lonely-one" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Song</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">Lovely, Dark, and Lonely One</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Lovely, dark, and lonely one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bare your bosom to the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not be afraid of light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You who are a child of night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Open wide your arms to life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whirl in the wind of pain and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Face the wall with the dark closed gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat with bare, brown fists</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wait.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-being-walkers-with-the-dawn-and-morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">Being Walkers with the Dawn and Morning</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Being walkers with the dawn and morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walkers with the sun and morning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are not afraid of night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor days of gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being walkers with the sun and morning.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-earth-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Earth Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It's an earth song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I've been waiting long for an earth song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It's a spring song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I've been waiting long for a spring song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong as the shoots of a new plant</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong as the bursting of new buds</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strong as the coming of the first child from its mother's womb.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It's an earth song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A body song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A spring song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have been waiting long for this spring song.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-too" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Too</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I, too, sing America.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am the darker brother.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They send me to eat in the kitchen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When company comes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I laugh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And eat well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grow strong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tomorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll sit at the table</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When company comes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody'll dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Eat in the kitchen,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Besides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'll see how beautiful I am</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be ashamed,—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I, too, am America.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="drama-for-winter-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Drama for Winter Night</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Fifth Avenue)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>You can't sleep here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My good man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't sleep here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the house of God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The usher opens the church door and he goes out.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You can't sleep in this car, old top,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If Jones found you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He'd give you to the cops.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Get-the-hell out now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This ain't home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't stay here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The chauffeur opens the door and he gets out.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord! You can't let a man lie in the streets like this.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Find an officer quick.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Send for an ambulance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Maybe he is sick but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can't die on this corner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not here!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can't die here.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Death opens a door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lemme git by St. Peter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lemme sit down on the steps of your throne.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lemme rest somewhere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What did yuh say, God?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What did yuh say?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't sleep here. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bums can't stay. . . .</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The man's raving.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Get him to the hospital quick.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He's attracting a crowd.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He can't die on this corner.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, no, not here.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="god-to-hungry-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">God to Hungry Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hungry child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I didn't make this world for you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You didn't buy any stock in my railroad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You didn't invest in my corporation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where are your shares in standard oil?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I made the world for the rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the will-be-rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the have-always-been-rich.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not for you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry child.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-to-a-dead-soldier" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem to a Dead Soldier</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>"Death is a whore who consorts with all men."</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Ice-cold passion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a bitter breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adorned the bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Youth and Death—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Youth, the young soldier</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who went to the wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And embraced white Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vilest of whores.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now we spread roses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over your tomb—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We who sent you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To your doom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now we make soft speeches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sob soft cries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And throw soft flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And utter soft lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We mould you in metal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And carve you in stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not daring make statue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your dead flesh and bone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not daring to mention</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bitter breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the ice-cold passion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your love-night with Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We make soft speeches.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We sob soft cries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We throw soft flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And utter soft lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you who were young</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you went to the wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have lost your youth now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the vilest of whores.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="park-benching" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Park Benching</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I've sat on the park benches in Paris</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I’ve sat on the park benches in New York</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I’ve said:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want a job.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I’ve been told:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are no jobs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is no work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So I’ve sat on the park benches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mid-winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hungry days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No jobs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No work.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rising-waters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rising Waters</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who are the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Foam on the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not the sea—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What of the jagged rocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the waves themselves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the force of the mounting waters?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But foam on the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You rich ones—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not the sea.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-weary-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Weary Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Droning a drowsy syncopated tune,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I heard a Negro play.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down on Lenox Avenue the other night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the pale dull pallor of an old gas light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He did a lazy sway. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">He did a lazy sway. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the tune o' those Weary Blues.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his ebony hands on each ivory key</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He made that poor piano moan with melody.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O Blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swaying to and fro on his rickety stool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He played that sad raggy tune like a musical fool.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Sweet Blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coming from a black man's soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O Blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a deep song voice with a melancholy tone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard that Negro sing, that old piano moan—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">"Ain't got nobody in all this world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Ain't got nobody but ma self.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I's gwine to quit ma frownin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And put ma troubles on the shelf."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thump, thump, thump, went his foot on the floor.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He played a few chords then he sang some more—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">"I got the Weary Blues</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I can't be satisfied.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Got the Weary Blues</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And can't be satisfied—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">I ain't happy no mo'</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And I wish that I had died."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And far into the night he crooned that tune.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stars went out and so did the moon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The singer stopped playing and went to bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the Weary Blues echoed through his head.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He slept like a rock or a man that's dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I ask you this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which way to go?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ask you this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which sin to bear?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which crown to put</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon my hair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lord God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I do not know.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-to-f-s" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">To <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">F. S.</abbr></p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I loved my friend.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He went away from me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There's nothing more to say.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poem ends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soft as it began,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I loved my friend.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">America</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Little dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little Jew baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little outcast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America is seeking the stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America is seeking tomorrow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am America</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—the dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—the vision.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—the star-seeking I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chains of slavery;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ghettos of Europe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of yesterday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poverty and pain of the old, old world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The building and struggle of this new one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking the stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You of the blue eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blond hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I of the dark eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the crinkly hair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Offering hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being brothers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You and I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who am I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am Crispus Attucks at the Boston Tea Party;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jimmy Jones in the ranks of the last black troops marching for democracy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am Sojourner Truth preaching and praying for the goodness of this wide, wide land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Today's black mother bearing tomorrow's America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who am I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dream of my dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am America.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am America seeking the stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hoping, praying</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fighting, dreaming.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There are stains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the beauty of my democracy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to be clean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to grovel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer in the mire.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I want to reach always</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who am I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the ghetto child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the blond tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am my one sole self,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America seeking the stars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-certain-brothers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Certain “Brothers”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>You sicken me with lies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With truthful lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with your pious faces,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And your wide, out-stretched, mock-welcome, Christian hands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While underneath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is dirt and ugliness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rottening hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wild hyenas howling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In your soul's waste lands.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="suicides-note" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Suicide’s Note</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cool face of the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Asked me for a kiss.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fantasy-in-purple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fantasy in Purple</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Beat the drums of tragedy for me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beat the drums of tragedy and death.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the choir sing a stormy song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To drown the rattle of my dying breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beat the drums of tragedy for me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the white violins whir thin and slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But blow one blaring trumpet note of sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="line-break">
					<span>To go with me</span>
					<span class="line-break">
						<span>to the darkness</span>
						<span>where I go.</span>
					</span>
				</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-midnight-nan-at-leroys" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Midnight Nan at Leroy’s</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Strut and wiggle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shameless gal.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouldn't no good fellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be your pal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hear dat music. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jungle night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hear dat music. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the moon was white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing your Blues song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pretty baby.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You want lovin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you don't mean maybe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jungle lover. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night black boy. . . .</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two against the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the moon was joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strut and wiggle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shameless Nan.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouldn't no good fellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be your man.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-bride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Bridge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They say she died,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although I do not know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They say she died of grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the earth-dark arms of Death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sought calm relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rest from pain of love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In loveless sleep.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-jester" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Jester</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In one hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hold tragedy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the other</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Comedy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Masks for the soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laugh with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would laugh!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weep with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You would weep!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tears are my laughter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laughter is my pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cry at my grinning mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laugh at my sorrow's reign.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am the Black Jester,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dumb clown of the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The booted, booted fool of silly men.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once I was wise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I be wise again?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="soledad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Soledad</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Cuban Portrait</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>The shadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of too many nights of love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have fallen beneath your eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of pain and passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of lies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of pain and passion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soledad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So deeply scarred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So still with silent cries.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poem-to-the-black-beloved" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poem</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">To the Black Beloved</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Ah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My black one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art not beautiful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet thou hast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A loveliness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surpassing beauty.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My black one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art not good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet thou hast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A purity</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surpassing goodness.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My black one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art not luminous</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet an altar of jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An altar of shimmering jewels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would pale in the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of thy darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pale in the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of thy nightness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="cross" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Cross</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My old man's a white old man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my old mother's black.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ever I cursed my white old man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I take my curses back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If ever I cursed my black old mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wished she were in hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm sorry for that evil wish</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now I wish her well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My old man died in a fine big house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My ma died in a shack.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wonder where I'm gonna die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Being neither white nor black?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="summer-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Summer Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sounds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Harlem night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drop one by one into stillness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last player-piano is closed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last victrola ceases with the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Jazz Boy Blues."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last crying baby sleeps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the night becomes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still as a whispering heartbeat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I toss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without rest in the darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary as the tired night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Empty as the silence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Empty with a vague,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aching emptiness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Desiring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Needing someone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I toss without rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the new dawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wan and pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Descends like a white mist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the court-yard.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="disillusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Disillusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I would be simple again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Simple and clean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ever know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark Harlem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wild laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the salt tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be kind to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, great dark city.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will not come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To you again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="disillusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Disillusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I would be simple again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Simple and clean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor ever know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark Harlem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wild laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your mirth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor the salt tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be kind to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, great dark city.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let me forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I will not come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To you again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jazz-band-in-a-parisian-cabaret" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jazz Band in a Parisian Cabaret</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Play that thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play it for the lords and ladies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the dukes and counts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the whores and gigolos,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the American millionaires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the school teachers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out for a spree.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know that tune</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That laughs and cries at the same time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know it</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">May I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mais oui.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Mien Gott!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Parece una rumba.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play it, jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You've got seven languages to speak in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then some,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even if you do come from Georgia.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Can I go home wid yuh, sweetie?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sure.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="minstrel-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Minstrel Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Because my mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is wide with laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my throat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is deep with song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not think</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I suffer after</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have held my pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Because my mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is wide with laughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My inner cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are gay with dancing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nude-young-dancer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nude Young Dancer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>What jungle tree have you slept under,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Midnight dancer of the jazzy hour?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What great forest has hung its perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a sweet veil about your bower?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What jungle tree have you slept under,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night-dark girl of the swaying hips?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What star-white moon has been your mother?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To what clean boy have you offered your lips?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="songs-to-the-dark-virgin" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Songs to the Dark Virgin</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I were a jewel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shattered jewel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all my shining brilliants</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might fall at thy feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dark one.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I were a garment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shimmering, silken garment,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all my folds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might wrap about thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Absorb thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold and hide thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dark one.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Would</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I were a flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one sharp, leaping flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To annihilate thy body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dark one.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="young-sailor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Sailor</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One who sings "chansons vulgaires"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a Harlem cellar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the jazz-band plays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From dark to dawn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would not understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should you tell her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she is like a nymph</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some wild faun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="joy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Joy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I went to look for Joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slim, dancing Joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gay, laughing Joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright-eyed Joy,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I found her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Driving the butcher's cart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the arms of the butcher boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such company, such company,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As keeps this young nymph, Joy!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="strange-hurt-she-knew" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Strange Hurt She Knew</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In times of stormy weather</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She felt queer pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“You'll find rain better</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than shelter from the rain.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Days filled with fiery sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strange hurt she knew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her seek the burning sunlight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather than the shade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In months of snowy winter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When cozy houses hold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She'd break</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down doors to wander</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Naked through the cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="star-seeker" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Star Seeker</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I have been a seeker</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking a flaming star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the flame-white star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has burned my hands</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even from afar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Walking in a dream-dead world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Circled by iron bars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I sought a singing star's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wild beauty.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now behold my scars.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lullaby" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lullaby</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My little dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little earth-thing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little love-one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall I sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your lullaby?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A necklace of stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Winding the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My little black baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My dark body's baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall I sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your lullaby?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Great diamond moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Kissing the night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, little dark baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night black baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Stars, stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Night stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your sleep-song lullaby.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="salome" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Salome</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is no sweetness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unwarm and dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even passion's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flaming bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turns ashen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a charnel bed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Salome</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the wine-red lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What would you with death's head?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-ring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Ring</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love is the master of the ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life a circus tent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What is this silly song you sing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is the master of the ring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am afraid!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid of Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of Love's bitter whip!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Afraid of Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Love's sharp, stinging whip.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What is this silly song you sing?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is the master of the ring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="midwinter-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Midwinter Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In de middle of de winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snow all over de ground.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In de middle of de winter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snow all over de ground,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Twas de night befo' Christmas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma good man turned me down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Don' know's I'd mind his goin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he left me when de coal was low.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’ know's I'd mind his goin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he left when de coal was low.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now, if a man loves a woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That ain't no time to go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He told me that he loved me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he must a been tellin' a lie.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He told me that he loved me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He must a been tellin' a lie.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he's the only man I'll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love till de day I die.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm gonna buy me a rose bud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' plant it at ma back door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gonna buy me a rose bud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And plant it at ma back door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So when I'm dead they</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Won't need no flowers from de store.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gypsy-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gypsy Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ma man's a gypsy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause he never does come home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma man's a gypsy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never does come home.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm gonna be a gypsy woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fer I can't stay here alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once I was in Memphis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I mean Tennessee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once I was in Memphis,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Tennessee.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I had to leave cause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody there was good to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I met a yellow papa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He took ma last thin dime.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Met a yellow papa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He took ma last thin dime.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I give it to him cause I loved him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I'll have mo' sense 'next time.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love, Oh, love is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a strange disease.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love, Oh, love is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such a strange disease.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When it hurts yo' heart you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sho can't find no ease.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ma-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ma Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When ma man looks at me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knocks me off ma feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When ma man looks at me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knocks me off ma feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He's got those 'lectric-shockin' eyes an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De way he shocks me sho is sweet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He kin play a banjo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lordy, he kin plank, plunk, plunk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He kin play a banjo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I mean plunk, plunk ... plunk, plunk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He plays good when he's sober</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' better, better, better when he's drunk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Eagle-rockin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daddy, eagle-rock with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eagle rockin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come an' eagle-rock with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honey baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eagle-rockish as I kin be!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-song-for-lucinda" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love Song for Lucinda</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a ripe plum</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Growing on a purple tree.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Taste it once</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the spell of its enchantment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will never let you be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a bright star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glowing in far Southern skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look too hard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its burning flame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will always hurt your eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a high mountain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stark in a windy sky.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would never lose your breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not climb too high.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="teacher" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Teacher</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ideals are like the stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Always above our reach.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Humbly I tried to learn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">More humbly did I teach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On all honest virtues</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I sought to keep firm hold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wanted to be a good man</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though I pinched my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now I lie beneath cool loam</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forgetting every dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in this narrow bed of earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No lights gleam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In this narrow bed of earth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Star-dust never scatters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I tremble lest the darkness teach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Me that nothing matters.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="minnie-sings-her-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Minnie Sings Her Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Cabaret, cabaret!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That's where ma man an' me go.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cabaret, cabaret!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That's where we go,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaves de snow outside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' our troubles at de door.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jazz band, jazz band!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma man an' me dance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I cuddles up to him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No other gal's got a chance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Baby, O, Baby,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm midnight mad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ma daddy didn't love me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It sho would be sad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he didn't love me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd go away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' dig me a grave this very day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Blues ... blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blue, blue, blues!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd sho have them blues.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="listen-here-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Listen Here Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sweet girls, sweet girls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen here to me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All you sweet girls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen here to me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gin an' whiskey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kin make you lose yo' 'ginity.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I used to be a good chile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lawd, in Sunday School.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Used to be a good chile,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Always in Sunday School,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till these licker-headed rounders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Made me everbody's fool.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Good girls, good girls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen here to me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, you good girls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Better listen to me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don't you fool wid no men cause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'll bring you misery.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fortune-teller-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fortune Teller Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I went to de gypsy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De gypsy took hold o' my hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went to de gypsy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gypsy took hold o' my hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She looked at me and tole me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chile, you gonna lose yo' man.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These fortune tellers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never tell me nothin' kind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I say fortune tellers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never tell me nothin' kind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd give a hundred dollars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To de one that would ease my mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cause I'll holler an' scream an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fall down on de flo'.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say I'll holler an' scream an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fall down on de flo'.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If my man leaves me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I won't live no mo'.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="judgment-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Judgment Day</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They put ma body in de ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma soul went flyin' o' de town.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Went flyin' to de stars an' moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A shoutin' God, I's comin' soon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lord in heaben,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crown on His head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Says don't be 'fraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause you ain't dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Kind Jesus!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An' now I'm settin' clean an' bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In de sweet o' ma Lord's sight,—-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Clean an' bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Clean an' bright.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="wide-river" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wide River</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ma baby lives across de river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' I ain't got no boat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She lives across de river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ain't got no boat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ain't a good swimmer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' I don't know how to float.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wide, wide river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tween ma love an' me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wide, wide river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tween ma love an' me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I never knowed how</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wide a river can be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Got to cross that river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' git to ma baby somehow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cross that river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git to ma baby somehow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause if I don't see ma baby</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll lay down an' die right now.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="homesick-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Homesick Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>De railroad bridge's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sad song in de air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>De railroad bridge's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A sad song in de air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever time de trains pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wants to go somewhere.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I went down to de station.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma heart was in ma mouth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went down to de station.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heart was in ma mouth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lookin' for a box car</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To roll me to de South.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Homesick blues, Lawd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'S a terrible thing to have.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Homesick blues is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A terrible thing to have.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To keep from cryin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I opens ma mouth an' laughs.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ruby-brown" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ruby Brown</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She was young and beautiful</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And golden like the sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That warmed her body.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And because she was colored</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mayville had no place to offer her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor fuel for the clean flame of joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That tried to burn within her soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sitting on old Mrs. Latham's back porch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Polishing the silver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She asked herself two questions</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they ran something like this:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What can a colored girl do</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the money from a white woman's kitchen?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ain't there any joy in this town?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now the streets down by the river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Know more about this pretty Ruby Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sinister shuttered houses of the bottoms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hold a yellow girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking an answer to her questions.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The good church folk do not mention</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her name any more.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the white men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Habitués of the high shuttered houses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pay more money to her now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than they ever did before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she worked in their kitchens.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="formula" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Formula</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Poetry should treat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of lofty things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soaring thoughts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And birds with wings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Muse of Poetry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should not know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That roses</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In manure grow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Muse of Poetry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should not care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That earthly pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is everywhere.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poetry!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Treats of lofty things:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soaring thoughts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And birds with wings.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="autumn-note" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Autumn Note</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The little flowers of yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have all forgotten May.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last gold leaf</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has turned to brown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last bright day is grey.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cold of winter comes apace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you have gone away.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="for-dead-mimes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">For Dead Mimes</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, white-faced mimes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May rose leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cover you like snow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may Pierrette,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The faithful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rest forever with Pierrot.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="new-year" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">New Year</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fall like dry leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the top-less tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of eternity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does it matter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That another leaf has fallen?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="epitaph" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Epitaph</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Within this grave lie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why laugh, good people,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or why cry?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within this grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lies nothing more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than I.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-beauty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Beauty</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To worship</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the altar of Beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To feel her loveliness and pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To thrill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the wonder of her gorgeous moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the sharp, swift, silver swords</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of falling rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To walk in a golden garden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When an autumn sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has almost set,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When near-night's purple splendor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shimmers to a star-shine net.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To worship</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the altar of Beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a pleasure divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not given to the many many</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to fools</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who drink Beauty's wine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not given to the many many</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to fools</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who seek no other goddess</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor grapes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plucked from another's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Vine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bound-noth-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bound No’th Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Goin' down de road, Lawd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Goin' down de road.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down de road, Lawd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Way, way down de road.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got to find somebody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To help me carry dis load.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Road's in front o' me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothin' to do but walk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Road's in front o’ me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Walk ... and walk ... and walk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd like to meet a good friend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To come along an' talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hates to be lonely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lawd, I hates to be sad.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Says I hates to be lonely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hates to be lonely an' sad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ever friend you finds seems</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like they try to do you bad.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Road, road, road, O!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Road, road ... road ... road, road!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Road, road, road, O!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On de No'thern road.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These Mississippi towns ain't</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fit fer a hoppin' toad.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lonesome-place" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lonesome Place</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I got to leave this town.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s a lonesome place.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Got to leave this town cause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It’s a lonesome place.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A po’, po’ boy can’t</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Find a friendly face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Goin’ down to de river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flowin’ deep an’ slow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Goin’ down to de river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deep an’ slow.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause there ain’t no worries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where de waters go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’m weary, weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary, as I can be.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary, weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary as can be.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This life’s so weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’S ’bout to overcome me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="misery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Misery</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Play de blues for me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play de blues for me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No other music</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Ll ease ma misery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing a soothin' song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said a soothin' song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause de man I love's done</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Done me wrong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can't you understand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, understand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A good woman's cryin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a no-good man?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Black gal like me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black gal like me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'S got to hear a blues</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her misery</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bad-luck-card" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bad Luck Card</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Cause you don't love me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is awful, awful hard.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gypsy done showed me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma bad luck card.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There ain't no good left</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this world for me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gypsy done tole me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unlucky as can be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I don't know what</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Po' weary me can do.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gypsy says I'd kill ma self</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I was you.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="feet-o-jesus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Feet o’ Jesus</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At de feet o' Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sorrow like a sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lordy, let yo' mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come driftin' down on me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At de feet o' Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At yo' feet I stand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, ma little Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Please reach out yo' hand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="down-an-out" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Down an’ Out</h2>
			<p>
				<span>If you loves me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Help me when I’m down an’ out.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you loves me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Help me when I’m down an’ out.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause I’m a po’ gal that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody gives a damn about.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Stalment man’s done took ma clothes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ rent time’s most nigh here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Stalment man’s done took ma clothes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rent time’s most nigh here.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'd like to buy a straightenin’ comb</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ I needs a dime for beer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Talk about yo’ friendly friends</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bein’ kind to you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talk about yo’ friendly friends</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bein’ kind to you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just let yo’self git down an’ out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ then see what they'll do.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fog</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Singing black boatmen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An August morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the thick white fog at Sekondi</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Coming out to take cargo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From anchored alien ships,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not know the fog</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We strange so-civilized ones</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sail in always.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pictures-to-the-wall" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pictures to the Wall</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I tell you of my old, old dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lost at the earth's strange turnings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some in the sea when the waves foamed high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some in a garret candle's burnings?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I tell you of bitter, forgotten dreams—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You who are still so young, so young?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You with your wide brown singing eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And laughter at the tip of your tongue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I tell you of weary, weary dreams,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You who have lost no dreams at all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or shall I keep quiet and let turn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My ugly pictures to the wall?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="walls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Walls</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Four walls can hold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, so much pain:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Four walls that shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the wind and rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Four walls can keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, so much sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Garnered from yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And held for tomorrow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="beale-street-love" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Beale Street Love</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a brown man's fist</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With hard knuckles</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crushing the lips,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blackening the eyes,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hit me again,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Says Clorinda.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dressed-up" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dressed Up</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I had ma clothes cleaned</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just like new.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I put 'em on but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I still feels biue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I bought a new hat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sho is fine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I wish I had back that</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old gal o' mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I got new shoes,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They don't hurt ma feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I ain't got nobody</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to call me sweet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-house-in-taos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A House in Taos</h2>
			<section id="a-house-in-taos-rain">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rain</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thunder of the Rain God:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And we three</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Smitten by beauty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thunder of the Rain God:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And we three</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Weary, weary.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thunder of the Rain God:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And you, she, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Waiting for nothingness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you understand the stillness</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of this house in Taos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under the thunder of the Rain God?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-house-in-taos-sun">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sun</h3>
				<p>
					<span>That there should be a barren garden</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About this house in Taos</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not so strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that there should be three barren hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this one house in Taos,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who carries ugly things to show the sun?</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-house-in-taos-moon">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Moon</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Did you ask for the beaten brass of the moon?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We can buy lovely things with money,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, she and I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet you seek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As though you could keep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This unbought loveliness of moon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="a-house-in-taos-wind">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Wind</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Touch our bodies, wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our bodies are separate individual things.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touch our bodies, wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But blow quickly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the red, white, yellow skins</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of our bodies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the terrible snarl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not yours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not hers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all one snarl of souls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blow quickly, wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before we run back into the windlessness,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With our bodies,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the windlessness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of our house in Taos.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="suicide" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Suicide</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ma sweet good man has</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Packed his trunk and left.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma sweet good man has</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Packed his trunk and left.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody to love me:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm gonna kill ma self.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm gonna buy me a knife with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A blade ten inches long.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gonna buy a knife with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A blade ten inches long.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I carve ma self or</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That man that done me wrong?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'Lieve I'll jump in de river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eighty-nine feet deep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Lieve I'll jump in de river</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eighty-nine feet deep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause de river's quiet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' a po', po' ga! can sleep.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hard-luck" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hard Luck</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When hard luck overtakes you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothin' for you to do.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When hard luck overtakes you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nothin' for you to do.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gather up yo' fine clothes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' sell 'em to de Jew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jew takes yo' fine clothes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gives you a dollar an' a half.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jew takes yo' fine clothes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gives you a dollar an' a half.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go to de bootleg's,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git some gin to make you laugh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If I was a mule I'd</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git me a waggon to haul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If I was a mule I'd</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git a waggon to haul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm so low-down I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ain't even got a stall.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="po-boy-blues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Po’ Boy Blues</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When I was home de</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sunshine seemed like gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I was home de</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sunshine seemed like gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since I come up North de</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whole damn world's turned cold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was a good boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never done no wrong.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, I was a good boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Never done no wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this world is weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' de road is hard an' long.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I fell in love with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A gal I thought was kind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fell in love with</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A gal I thought was kind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She made me lose ma money</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' almost lose ma mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weary, weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary early in de morn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary, weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Early, early in de morn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I's so weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wish I'd never been born.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="red-roses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Red Roses</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I'm waitin' for de springtime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When de tulips grow—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet, sweet springtime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When de tulips grow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause if I'd die in de winter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They'd bury me under snow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Un'neath de snow, Lawd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh, what would I do?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Un'neath de snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I say what would I do?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It's bad enough to die but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I don't want freezin' too.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm waitin' for de springtime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' de roses red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waitin' for de springtime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When de roses red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Ll make a nice coverin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fer a gal that's dead.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="railroad-adventure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Railroad Adventure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Dusk dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Railroad Avenue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lights in the fish joints,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lights in the pool rooms.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A box-car some train</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has forgotten</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the middle of the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Block.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A player piano,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A victrola.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">942</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was the number.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lounging on a corner.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A passing girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With purple powdered skin.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Suddenly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like a taut drum.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Suddenly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Neither truth nor lie.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hardening the dusk dark evening.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Laughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shaking the lights in the fish joints,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rolling white balls in the pool rooms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leaving untouched the box-car</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some train has forgotten.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="elevator-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Elevator Boy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I got a job now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Runnin' an elevator</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the Dennison Hotel in Jersey.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Job ain't no good though.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No money around.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Jobs are just chances</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like everthing else.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Maybe a little luck now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Maybe not.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Maybe a good job sometimes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Step out o' the barrel, boy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two new suits an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A woman to sleep with.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Maybe no luck for a long time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Only the elevators</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Goin' up an' down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Up an' down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or somebody elses' shoes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or greasy pots in a dirty kitchen.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I been runnin' this</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elevator too long.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Guess I'll quit now.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="stars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Stars</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, sweep of stars over Harlem streets,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, little breath of oblivion that is night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A city building</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To a mother's song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A city dreaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To a lullabye.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reach up your hand, dark boy, and take a star</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of the little breath of oblivion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That is night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Take just one star.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brass-spitoons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Brass Spitoons</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Clean the spitoons, boy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Detroit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Chicago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Atlantic City,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Palm Beach.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clean the spitoons.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The steam in hotel kitchens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the smoke in hotel lobbies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the slime in hotel spitoons:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Part of my life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hey, boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A nickel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A dime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A dollar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two dollars a day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hey, boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A nickel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A dime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A dollar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Two dollars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Buys shoes for the baby.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>House rent to pay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gin on Saturday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Church on Sunday.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My God!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Babies and girl and church</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and women and Sunday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>all mixed up with dimes and</span>
				<br/>
				<span>dollars and clean spitoons</span>
				<br/>
				<span>and house rent to pay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hey, boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A bright bowl of brass is beautiful to the Lord.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright polished brass like the cymbals</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of King David's dancers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the wine cups of Solomon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hey, boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A clean spitoon on the altar of the Lord.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A clean bright spitoon all newly polished,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At least I can offer that.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Com' mere, boy!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-new-cabaret-girl" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The New Cabaret Girl</h2>
			<p>
				<span>That little yaller gal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wid blue-green eyes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If her daddy ain't white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be a surprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She don't drink gin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' she don't like corn.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I asked her one night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where she was born.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An' she say, Honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I don't know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where I come from</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or where I go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That crazy little yaller gal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wid blue-green eyes:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If her daddy ain't 'fay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be a surprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An' there she sets a cryin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In de cabaret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lookin' all sad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she ought to play.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My God, I says,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can't live that way!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Babe, you can't</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Live that way!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="argument" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Argument</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now lookahere, gal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don’t you talk ’bout me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I got mo’ hair ’n you evah did see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An’ if I ain’t high yaller</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ain’t coal black,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So what you said ’bout me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You bettah take it back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Now, listen, Corrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I don’t talk ’bout you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I's got much mo’</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Important things to do.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All right, gal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I’m speakin’ ma mind:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You bettah keep yo’ freight train</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Off ma line.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="saturday-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Saturday Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Play it once.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, play some more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Charlie is a gambler</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' Sadie is a whore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A glass o' whiskey</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An' a glass o' gin:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Strut, Mr. Charlie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till de dawn comes in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pawn yo' gold watch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' diamond ring.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Git a quart o' licker,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let's shake dat thing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Skee-de-dad! De-dad!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doo-doo-doo!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Won't be nothin' left</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When de worms git through</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An' you's a long time</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When you is</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dead, too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So beat dat drum, boy!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shout dat song:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake 'em up an' shake 'em up</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All night long.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hey! Hey!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ho... Hum!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Do, it, Mr. Charlie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till de red dawn come.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cat-and-the-saxophone" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Cat and the Saxophone</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">(2 <abbr>a.m.</abbr>)</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>
					<b>Everybody</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Half-pint,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gin?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, make it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>loves my baby</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>corn. You like</span>
				<br/>
				<span>liquor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>don't you, honey?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>but my baby</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sure. Kiss me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>don't love nobody</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>daddy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>but me.</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>Everybody</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>wants my baby</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm your</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>but my baby</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>sweetie, ain't I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>don't want nobody</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sure.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>but</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then let's</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>me,</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>do it!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<b>sweet me.</b>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Charleston,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>mamma!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-little-lover-lass-dead" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Little Lover-Lass, Dead</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who searched for lovers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has gone the quiet way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark land of death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond the rim of day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now like a little lonely waif</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She walks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An endless street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gives her kiss to nothingness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would God his lips were sweet!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="harlem-night-club" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Harlem Night Club</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sleek black boys in a cabaret.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazz-band, jazz-band,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play, pl<strong>ay, play</strong>!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow. . . . who knows?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dance today!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White girls' eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Call gay black boys.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Black boys' lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grin jungle joys.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dark brown girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In blond men's arms.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jazz-band, jazz-band,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sing Eve's charms!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>White ones, brown ones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What do you know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About tomorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where all paths go?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Jazz-boys, jazz-boys,–</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Play, pl<strong>ay, play</strong>!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tomorrow. . . . is darkness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joy today!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-a-black-dancer-in-the-little-savoy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To a Black Dancer in "The Little Savoy"</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Wine-maiden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the jazz-tuned night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet as purple dew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breasts</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the pillows of all sweet dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who crushed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grapes of joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dripped their juice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On you?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="blues-fantasy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Blues Fantasy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hey! Hey!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That's what the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blues singers say.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing minor melodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They laugh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hey! Hey!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My man's done left me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chile, he's gone away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My good man's left me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Babe, he's gone away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the cryin' blues</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Haunts me night and day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hey! . . . Hey!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trouble, pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sun's gonna shine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Somewhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I got a railroad ticket,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pack my trunk and ride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing 'em, sister!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Got a railroad ticket,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pack my trunk and ride.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when I get on the train</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll cast my blues aside.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Laughing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hey! . . . Hey!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laugh a loud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hey! Hey!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lenox-avenue-midnight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lenox Avenue: Midnight</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The rhythm of life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is a jazz rhythm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honey.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gods are laughing at us.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The broken heart of love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weary, weary heart of pain,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Overtones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Undertones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the rumble of street cars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the swish of rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lenox Avenue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Honey.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Midnight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the gods are laughing at us.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poeme-d-automne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="fr">Poème d’Automne</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The autumn leaves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are too heavy with color.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The slender trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the Vulcan Road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are dressed in scarlet and gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like young courtesans</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waiting for their lovers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The winter winds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will strip their bodies bare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sharp, sleet-stung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Caresses of the cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be their only</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="march-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">March Moon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The moon is naked.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wind has undressed the moon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wind has blown all the cloud-garments</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Off the body of the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now she's naked,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stark naked.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But why don't you blush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O shameless moon?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don't you know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It isn't nice to be naked?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="as-i-grew-older" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">As I Grew Older</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It was a long time ago.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have almost forgotten my dream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it was there then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In front of me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright like a sun,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then the wall rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose slowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Between me and my dream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose slowly, slowly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dimming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hiding,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The light of my dream.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose until it touched the sky,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shadow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I am black.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I lie down in the shadow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer the light of my dream before me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only the thick wall.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only the shadow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My hands!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My dark hands!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Break through the wall!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Find my dream!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Help me to shatter this darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To smash this night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To break this shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a thousand lights of sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a thousand whirling dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sun!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="harlem-night-song" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Harlem Night Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us roam the night together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Across</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Harlem roof-tops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Moon is shining.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night sky is blue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stars are great drops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of golden dew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the cabaret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The jazz-band's playing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I love you.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us roam the night together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ardella" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ardella</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I would liken you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a night without stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were it not for your eyes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would liken you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a sleep without dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were it not for your songs.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="pierrot" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pierrot</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I work all day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Simple John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Myself a house to buy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I work all day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Simple John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Pierrot wondered why.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Pierrot loved the long white road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pierrot loved the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pierrot loved a star-filled sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the breath of a rose in June.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have one wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Simple John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, faith, I love her yet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have one wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Simple John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Pierrot left Pierrette.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Pierrot saw a world of girls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pierrot loved each one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pierrot thought all maidens fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As flowers in the sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, I am good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Simple John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lord will take me in.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yes, I am good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Simple John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Pierrot's steeped in sin.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Pierrot played on a slim guitar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pierrot loved the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Pierrot ran down the long white road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the burgher's wife one June.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="waterfront-streets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Water-Front Streets</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The spring is not so beautiful there,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But dream ships sail away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To where the spring is wondrous rare</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And life is gay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The spring is not so beautiful there,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But lads put out to sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who carry beauties in their hearts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dreams, like me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-farewell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Farewell</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With gypsies and sailors,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wanderers of the hills and seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I go to seek my fortune.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With pious folk and fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I must have a parting.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you will not miss me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You who live between the hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And have never seen the seas.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="long-trip" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Long Trip</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sea is a wilderness of waves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A desert of water.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We dip and dive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rise and roll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hide and are hidden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Day, night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Night, day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sea is a desert of waves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A wilderness of water.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="port-town" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Port Town</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hello, sailor boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In from the sea!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hello, sailor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come with me!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come on drink cognac.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rather have wine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come here, I love you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come and be mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lights, sailor boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warm, white lights.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Solid land, kid.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wild, white nights.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come on, sailor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out o' the sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let's go, sweetie!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come with me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sea-calm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sea Calm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How strangely still</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The water is today.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is not good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be so still that way.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="caribbean-sunset" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Caribbean Sunset</h2>
			<p>
				<span>God having a hemorrhage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blood coughed across the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Staining the dark sea red,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That is sunset in the Caribbean.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="natcha" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Natcha</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Natcha, offering love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For ten shillings offering love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Offering: A night with me, honey.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A long, sweet night with me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come, drink palm wine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Come, drink kisses.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A long, dream night with me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="death-of-an-old-seaman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Death of an Old Seaman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We buried him high on a windy hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his soul went out to sea.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know, for I heard, when all was still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His sea-soul say to me:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Put no tombstone at my head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For here I do not make my bed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strew no flowers on my grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I've gone back to the wind and wave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do not, do not weep for me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I am happy with my sea.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sick-room" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sick Room</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How quiet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is in this sick room</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where on the bed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A silent woman lies between two lovers—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life and Death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all three covered with a sheet of pain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-dark-mercedes-of-el-palacio-de-amor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Dark Mercedes of “El Palacio de Amor”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Mercedes is a jungle-lily in a death house.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mercedes is a doomed star.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mercedes is a charnel rose.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go where gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will fall at the feet of your beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mercedes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go where they will pay you well</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your loveliness.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mulatto" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mulatto</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>I am your son, white man!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Georgia dusk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the turpentine woods.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of the pillars of the temple fell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>You are my son!</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Like hell!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The moon over the turpentine woods.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Southern night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full of stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great big yellow stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Juicy bodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of nigger wenches</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Blue black</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Against black fences.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O, you little bastard boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">What's a body but a toy?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scent of pine wood stings the soft night air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>What's the body of your mother?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Silver moonlight everywhere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>What's the body of your mother?</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sharp pine scent in the evening air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A nigger night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A nigger joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A little yellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Bastard boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Naw, you ain't my brother,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Niggers ain't my brother.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Not ever.</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>Niggers ain't my brother.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Southern night is full of stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great big yellow stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O, sweet as earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Dusk dark bodies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Give sweet birth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To little yellow bastard boys.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>Git on back there in the night,</em>
				</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>You ain't white.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bright stars scatter everywhere.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pine wood scent in the evening air.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A nigger night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A nigger joy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">
					<em>I am your son, white man!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i2">A little yellow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Bastard boy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-letter-to-anne" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Letter to Anne</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Since I left you, Anne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have seen nothing but you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has been your face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every night your hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your voice calling me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every rock and every flower and tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has been a touch of you.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nowhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have I seen anything else but you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anne.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-the-mist-of-the-moon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In the Mist of the Moon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the mist of the moon I saw you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, Nanette,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you were lovelier than the moon.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">You were darkness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the body of darkness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And the body of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the mist of the moon I saw you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark Nanette.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-rocks-and-the-firm-roots-of-trees" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Song</h2>
				<p hidden="hidden" epub:type="subtitle">Rocks and the Firm Roots of Trees</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Rocks and the firm roots of trees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rising shafts of mountains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something strong to put my hands on.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing, O Lord Jesus!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Song is a strong thing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard my mother singing when you hurt her:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>
					<em>Gonna ride in my chariot some day!</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The branches rise from the firm roots of trees.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mountains rise from the solid lap of earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The waves rise from the dead weight of sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sing, O black mother!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Song is a strong thing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="for-an-indian-screen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">For an Indian Screen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Clutching at trees and clawing rocks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And panting and climbing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until he reached the top</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A tiger in India</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surmounted a cliff one day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the hunters were behind him</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his lair was far away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A black and golden tiger</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Climbed a red cliff's side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And men in black and golden gowns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sought the tiger's hide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, splendid, supple animal:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the cliff's red face:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A picture for an Indian screen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Woven in silks of subtle sheen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And broidered in yellow lace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A picture for an Indian screen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As a prince's gift to some ebony queen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a far-off land like a fairy scene.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Day</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where most surely comes a day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all the sweets you've gourged</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will turn your stomach sick</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the friends you've loved</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will go away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every gold swift hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be an hour of pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every sun-filled cloud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A cloud of rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even the withered flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will lose their long-held faint perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you alone will be with you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In that last room,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only your single selves together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing a single doom.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="passing-love" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Passing Love</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Because you are to me a song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I must not sing you overlong.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Because you are to me a prayer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cannot say you everywhere.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Because you are to me a rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You will not stay when summer goes.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lincoln-monument" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lincoln Monument</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(Washington)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Let’s go see old Abe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sitting in the marble and the moonlight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sitting lonely in the marble and the moonlight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quiet for ten thousand centuries, old Abe.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quiet for a million, million centuries.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quiet,—and yet a voice forever</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the timeless walls of time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Abe.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="song-for-a-dark-girl" epub:type="z3998:song">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Song for a Dark Girl</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Way Down South in Dixie</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Break the heart of me)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They hung my black young lover</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To a cross roads tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Way Down South in Dixie</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Bruised body high in air)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I asked the white Lord Jesus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What was the use of prayer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Way Down South in Dixie</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">(Break the heart of me)</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love is a naked shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On a gnarled and naked tree.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gals-cry-for-a-dying-lover" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gal’s Cry for a Dying Lover</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Heard de owl a hootin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowed somebody's 'bout to die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heard de owl a hootin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knowed somebody's 'bout to die.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Put ma head un'neath de kiver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Started in to moan an' cry.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hound dawg's barkin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Means he's gonna leave this world.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hound dawg's barkin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Means he's gonna leave this world.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, Lawd have mercy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a po' black girl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Black an' ugly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he sho do treat me kind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm black an' ugly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he sho do treat me kind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High-in-heaben Jesus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Please don't take this man o' mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mona" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mona</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She lived in sinful happiness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And died in pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she danced in sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And laughed in rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She went one summer morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When flowers spread the plain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she told my mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was coming back again.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The old folks made a coffin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hid her deep in earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seems like she said: My body</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brings new birth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For sure there grew flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tall young trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sturdy weeds and grasses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sway in the breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sure she lived in growing things</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With no pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And laughed in sunshine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And danced in rain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ma-lord" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ma Lord</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ma Lord ain't no stuck-up man.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma Lord, he ain't proud.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he goes a-walkin'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gives me his hand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"You ma friend," he 'lowed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ma Lord knowed what it was to work.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knowed how to pray.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ma Lord's life was trouble, too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trouble ever day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ma Lord ain't no stuck-up man.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He's a friend o' mine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When He went to heaben,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His soul on fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tole me I was gwine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said, "Sho you'll come wid me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An' be ma friend through eternity."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tapestry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tapestry</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Men who ride strange wild horses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down dangerous glens and glades,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men who draw keen sharp swords,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Toledo or Damascus blades,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men who swear and laugh and love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And live and sing like troubadours,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrinkled old beldams somewhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are dreaming of old amours.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="being-old" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Being Old</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It's because you are so young,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not understand.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But we are old</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">As the jungle trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That bloomed forever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Old as the forgotten rivers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That flowed into the earth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surely we know what you do not know;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Joy of living,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Uselessness of things.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are too young to understand yet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Build another skyscraper</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Touching the stars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We sit with our backs against a tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And watch skyscrapers tumble</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stars forget.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Solomon built a temple</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And it must have fallen down.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">It isn't here now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We know some things, being old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do not understand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="montmartre-beggar-woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Montmartre Beggar Woman</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Once you were beautiful,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunched in the cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody cares</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That you are old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once you were lovely,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No one remembers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your lips were sweet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oh, withered old woman</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rue Fontaine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nobody but death</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will kiss you again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="i-thought-it-was-tangiers-i-wanted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">I Thought It Was Tangiers I Wanted</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I know now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Notre Dame is in Paris.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Seine is more to me now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than a wriggling line on a map</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or a name in travel stories.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is a Crystal Palace in Antwerp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where a hundred women sell their naked bodies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the night-lovers of sailors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wait for men on docks in Genoa.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That a great golden moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like a picture-book moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Really rises behind palm groves</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Africa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tom-toms do beat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In village squares under the mango trees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I know now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Venice is a church dome</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a net-work of canals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tangiers a whiteness under sun.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was Tangiers I wanted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the gargoyles of Notre Dame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the Crystal Palace in Antwerp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the golden palm-grove moon in Africa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or a church dome and a net-work of canals.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Happiness lies nowhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some old fool said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If not within oneself.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It's a sure thing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Notre Dame is in Paris,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I thought it was Tangiers I wanted.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dreamer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dreamer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I take my dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And make of them a bronze vase,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a wide round fountain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a beautiful statue in its center,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a song with a broken heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I ask you:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do you understand my dreams?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sometimes you say you do</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes you say you don't.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Either way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It doesn't matter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I continue to dream.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hey!</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sun's a settin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is what I'm gonna sing.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sun's a settin';</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is what I'm gonna sing:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I feels de blues a comin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wonder what de blues'll bring?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hey-hey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hey! Hey!</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sun's a risin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is gonna be ma song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sun's a risin',</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is gonna be ma song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I could be blue but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I been blue all night long.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bad-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bad Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I'm a bad, bad man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cause everbody tells me so.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm a bad, bad man.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everbody tells me so.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I takes ma meanness and ma licker</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everwhere I go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I beats ma wife an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I beats ma side gal too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beats ma wife an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beats ma side gal too.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don't know why I do it but</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It keeps me from feelin' blue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I'm so bad I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don't even want to be good.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So bad, bad, bad I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Don't even want to be good.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm goin' to de devil an'</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wouldn't go to heaben if I could.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="closing-time" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Closing Time</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Starter!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Her face is pale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the doorway light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her lips blood red</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And her skin blue white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Taxi!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">I'm tired.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Deep ... River....</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O, God, please!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The river and the moon hold memories.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">Cornets play.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dancers whirl.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death, be kind</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What was the cover charge, kid?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">To a little drowned girl.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prize-fighter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prize Fighter</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Only dumb guys fight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If I wasn't dumb</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I wouldn't be fightin'.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I could make six dollars a day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the docks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I'd save more than I do now.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only dumb guys fight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
